README.md, before:

# Awsome Remote Sensing Explainable AI (XAI)

This repository contains a list of resources related to Explainable AI (XAI) in the context of Remote Sensing. The list is not exhaustive and will be updated regularly.

Feel free to contribute to this repository by creating a pull request.

<!--
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++ Table ++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
-->

## Table of Contents

- [XAI Basics](#xai-basics) Non-remote sensing specific resources for starting with XAI.
    - [Basics: Resources/Cheatsheets](#basics-resourcescheatsheets)
    - [Basics: Books](#basics-books)
    - [Basics: Courses and Workshops](#basics-courses-and-workshops)
    - [Basics: Papers](#basics-papers)
    - [Basics: Articles](#basics-articles)
    - [Basics: Videos](#basics-videos)

- [XAI in Remote Sensing](#xai-in-remote-sensing) Resources related to XAI in Remote Sensing.
    - [Courses and Workshops](#courses-and-workshops)
    - [Papers](#papers)
    - [Datasets](#datasets)
    - [Repositories](#repositories)


<!--
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++ Basics ++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
-->

---

---

---



## XAI Basics
This section contains non-remote sensing specific resources for starting with XAI.

### Basics: Resources/Cheatsheets

|Title|Link|Description|
|-----|----|-----------|
|Explainable AI Cheat Sheet | [ex.pegg.io/](https://ex.pegg.io/)| A cheat sheet on XAI + Video + list of resources|
|Distill.pub| [distill.pub](https://distill.pub/)| Many articles on XAI.|


### Basics: Books

### Basics: Courses and Workshops
|Course Name|Author|Date|Link|Description|
|-----------|------|----|----|-----------|
|Interpretable Machine Learning (IML) |Bernd Bischl | Apr 14, 2023 | [Link](https://slds-lmu.github.io/iml/)| This website offers an open and free introductory course on Interpretable Machine Learning.|

### Basics: Papers

|Title|Authors|Date|Link|Description|
|-----|-------|----|----|-----------|
|Examples are not enough, learn to criticize! Criticism for Interpretability|Been Kim, Rajiv Khanna, Oluwasanmi O. Koyejo|2016| [Link](https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2016/hash/5680522b8e2bb01943234bce7bf84534-Abstract.html)| a solution to explain both majority and minority groups in the dataset |
| What identifies a whale by its fluke? on the benefit of interpretable machine learning for whale identification | J Kierdorf, J Garcke, J Behley, T Cheeseman, R Roscher | 2020 | [Link](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/343401524_WHAT_IDENTIFIES_A_WHALE_BY_ITS_FLUKE_ON_THE_BENEFIT_OF_INTERPRETABLE_MACHINE_LEARNING_FOR_WHALE_IDENTIFICATION) | Uses Occlusion Sensitivity Maps (OSM) the important parts of the fluke for the classification.|
|RISE: Randomized Input Sampling for Explanation of Black-box Models | Vitali Petsiuk, Abir Das, Kate Saenko | 2018 | [Link](https://arxiv.org/abs/1806.07421) | This is an extention on Occlusion Sensitivity Maps (OSM) that uses random fading masks to find the important parts of the image for the classification.|

### Basics: Articles

|Title|Link|Description|
|-----|----|-----------|
|Feature Visualization| [Link](https://distill.pub/2017/feature-visualization/)| A visual guid to feature visualization. (Maximum mean discrepancy MMD/ Witness Function)|


### Basics: Videos

|Title|Link|Description|
|-----|----|-----------|
|Partial Dependence Plots| [Link](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uQQa3wQgG_s)| A very intuitive explanation of Partial Dependence Plots.|

---

---

---


<!--
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++ remote sensing ++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
-->


## XAI in Remote Sensing

### Courses and Workshops
|Course Name|Author|Date|Link|Description|
|-----------|------|----|----|-----------|
|Explainable Machine Learning|Ribana Roscher|Oct 12, 2022|[Playlist](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jxNhqSBFxfQ&list=PLzvRrSe1_bqgUQjKezJ63ZQ-OsiN4GVxR)||


### Papers

|Title|Authors|Date|Link|Description|
|-----|-------|----|----|-----------|
| jUngle-Net | T. Stomberg, I. Weber, M. Schmitt, and R. Roscher | 17 Jun 2021 | [Link](https://isprs-annals.copernicus.org/articles/V-3-2021/317/2021/) | A UNet-ResNet hybrid architecture for Scene Classification, that offers insights into the model, by having a deep layer with the same resolution as the input image.|




### Datasets

### Repositories

Commit message:

[Add] concept discovery book and papers

README.md, after:

# Awsome Remote Sensing Explainable AI (XAI)

This repository contains a list of resources related to Explainable AI (XAI) in the context of Remote Sensing. The list is not exhaustive and will be updated regularly.

Feel free to contribute to this repository by creating a pull request.

<!--
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++ Table ++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
-->

## Table of Contents

- [XAI Basics](#xai-basics) Non-remote sensing specific resources for starting with XAI.
    - [Basics: Resources/Cheatsheets](#basics-resourcescheatsheets)
    - [Basics: Books](#basics-books)
    - [Basics: Courses and Workshops](#basics-courses-and-workshops)
    - [Basics: Papers](#basics-papers)
    - [Basics: Articles](#basics-articles)
    - [Basics: Videos](#basics-videos)

- [XAI in Remote Sensing](#xai-in-remote-sensing) Resources related to XAI in Remote Sensing.
    - [Courses and Workshops](#courses-and-workshops)
    - [Papers](#papers)
    - [Datasets](#datasets)
    - [Repositories](#repositories)


<!--
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++ Basics ++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
-->

---

---

---



## XAI Basics
This section contains non-remote sensing specific resources for starting with XAI.

### Basics: Resources/Cheatsheets

|Title|Link|Description|
|-----|----|-----------|
|Explainable AI Cheat Sheet | [ex.pegg.io/](https://ex.pegg.io/)| A cheat sheet on XAI + Video + list of resources|
|Distill.pub| [distill.pub](https://distill.pub/)| Many articles on XAI.|


### Basics: Books

| Book Name | Chapter | Author | Date | Description |
|-----------|---------|--------|------|-------------|
| Probabilistic Machine Learning - Advanced Topics | 27-Discovery methods | Kevin P. Murphy | 2023 | I believe that learning about the `concept discovery` methods is the future of XAI. This book offers a chapter on the topic. |

### Basics: Courses and Workshops
|Course Name|Author|Date|Link|Description|
|-----------|------|----|----|-----------|
|Interpretable Machine Learning (IML) |Bernd Bischl | Apr 14, 2023 | [Link](https://slds-lmu.github.io/iml/)| This website offers an open and free introductory course on Interpretable Machine Learning.|

### Basics: Papers

|Title|Authors|Date|Link|Description|
|-----|-------|----|----|-----------|
|Examples are not enough, learn to criticize! Criticism for Interpretability|Been Kim, Rajiv Khanna, Oluwasanmi O. Koyejo|2016| [Link](https://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2016/hash/5680522b8e2bb01943234bce7bf84534-Abstract.html)| a solution to explain both majority and minority groups in the dataset |
| What identifies a whale by its fluke? on the benefit of interpretable machine learning for whale identification | J Kierdorf, J Garcke, J Behley, T Cheeseman, R Roscher | 2020 | [Link](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/343401524_WHAT_IDENTIFIES_A_WHALE_BY_ITS_FLUKE_ON_THE_BENEFIT_OF_INTERPRETABLE_MACHINE_LEARNING_FOR_WHALE_IDENTIFICATION) | Uses Occlusion Sensitivity Maps (OSM) the important parts of the fluke for the classification.|
|RISE: Randomized Input Sampling for Explanation of Black-box Models | Vitali Petsiuk, Abir Das, Kate Saenko | 2018 | [Link](https://arxiv.org/abs/1806.07421) | This is an extention on Occlusion Sensitivity Maps (OSM) that uses random fading masks to find the important parts of the image for the classification.|
|Grad-CAM | Ramprasaath R. Selvaraju, et al. | 2016 | [Link](https://arxiv.org/abs/1610.02391) | a technique to visualize the important parts of the image for the classification.|
|Layer-Wise Relevance Propagation: An Overview | Gr´egoire Montavon et al. |2019| [Link](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-030-28954-6_10) | |
|Quantitative Testing with Concept Activation Vectors (TCAV)| Been Kim et al. | 2018 | [Link](https://arxiv.org/abs/1711.11279) | [Medium Article](https://medium.com/@ellie.arbab/t-what-40d72a0012ed)|

### Basics: Articles

|Title|Link|Description|
|-----|----|-----------|
|Feature Visualization| [Link](https://distill.pub/2017/feature-visualization/)| A visual guid to feature visualization. (Maximum mean discrepancy MMD/ Witness Function)|


### Basics: Videos

|Title|Link|Description|
|-----|----|-----------|
|Partial Dependence Plots| [Link](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uQQa3wQgG_s)| A very intuitive explanation of Partial Dependence Plots.|

---

---

---


<!--
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++ remote sensing ++++++++++++++++++++++++
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
-->


## XAI in Remote Sensing

### Courses and Workshops
|Course Name|Author|Date|Link|Description|
|-----------|------|----|----|-----------|
|Explainable Machine Learning|Ribana Roscher|Oct 12, 2022|[Playlist](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jxNhqSBFxfQ&list=PLzvRrSe1_bqgUQjKezJ63ZQ-OsiN4GVxR)||


### Papers

|Title|Authors|Date|Link|Description|
|-----|-------|----|----|-----------|
| jUngle-Net | T. Stomberg, I. Weber, M. Schmitt, and R. Roscher | 17 Jun 2021 | [Link](https://isprs-annals.copernicus.org/articles/V-3-2021/317/2021/) | A UNet-ResNet hybrid architecture for Scene Classification, that offers insights into the model, by having a deep layer with the same resolution as the input image. - This also a good example on concept discovery.|




### Datasets

### Repositories
